---
layout: post
title: 'After 90 Days'

---

It has been interesting and exhilarating 90 days. My new year resolution never showed this much progress ever in the last 15 or odd years :). It has always been a resolution took and soon forgotten after the first few days of the year.

But this time, I things changed. It could be my intense desire to be among the best known programmers or what-so-ever, my progress is going great guns. Although, I had days where my mind threw several tantrums I did manage to stay on track and steer myself well.

My daily routine of learning and applying for 2 hours at least per day is paying good dividends.I finished reading "Thinking in Java - 4th Edition by Bruce Eckel" thoroughly over the last 90 days and this effort itself helped me  to learn a lot things which I had not seen or thought about earlier. A complete review of the book is due, I will add it to the blog soon.

Apart from completing Java lessons, I have started enjoying programming which is a good sign and I developed a small website using Ruby-on-Rails which is a good result I believe.

The lessons I learned during the last 90 days are that there is no definite programming language that is great as such, but rather its a tool that which we should pick up based on the demands of the situation.

So, its good to have C/C++ skills, along with Java, PHP, MySQL, CSS, XHTML and even Ruby-on-Rails for that matter.

I am so tempted to start my own design and web development agency seeing my current progress and the opportunities that it can provide me. More than anything, I can be my own boss :) lol! I think that's a great feeling.

But for now, I am focusing on refining my Java knowledge by trying to solve as many problems as possible in TopCoder/CodeChef/SPOJ.

After reading TIJ, for so long I felt that there is some value in learning C++ as well. So , I have bought "C++ primer" by Stanley Lippmann et.al. I will be starting to work on C++ in this quarter.
